# Introduction

Welcome to Vue Reference, a Vue 3 educational website. The documentation portion is focused on helping people learn:

- How to use Vue 3
- Technologies in the ecosystem like <mark>Nuxt 3</mark> and <mark>Pinia</mark>
- With <mark>multiple code examples</mark> for beginners and intermediate learners
- In-depth topics related to Vue and becoming a better software engineer

You are in the Vue 3 portion of the documentation.

Here are links for other portions of the website:

- <del>Nuxt 3</del>
- <del>Free Vue 3 Course</del>
- <del>Blog</del>

## The Focus

The Vue ecosytem comes with a lot of variety. There is the <mark>Options API</mark> and the <mark> Composition API </mark>.

You can bundle your project and download packages with NPM, Vue CLI, and Vite. And the options go on and on.

This website focuses on building applications from a Vue perspective. That means we will be focusing on the latest features that are stable
and will not be deprecated in the near future.

## The Technology Stack

1. <b>Vue 3 and Composition API</b> - Latest Vue version
2. <b>Vite</b> - application bundler
3. <b>Nuxt 3</b> - Server side rendering framework
4. <b>Pinia</b> - Shared state solution replacing VueX
5. <b>ESLint</b> - Linting for application style and formatting
6. <b>Visual Studio Code</b> - Code editor with easy-to-access plugins like <mark>Volar</mark>
7. <b>NPM and Node</b> - For downloading/installing Vue, external packages, and running commands

The first 4 in the technology stack are Vue specific. EsLint and Vs code are external applications but widely used by the industry. NPM is industry standard for accessing tools created by other developers and Node is required to run it.