# V-Model

<mark>V-model</mark> is a Vue directive that creates a two-way data binding between a form input and a data property. It allows you to bind the value of an input element to a data property and automatically update that property when the input value changes. <mark>v-model</mark> is shorthand for using both <mark>v-bind</mark> and <mark>v-on</mark> together.

To use <mark>v-model</mark> on an input element, you just need to add the directive to the element and bind it to a data property. For example:

```vue
<template>
  <input v-model="message">
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      message: 'Hello World'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

In this example, the value of the input element is bound to the <mark>message</mark> data property, so when the input value changes, the <mark>message</mark> property is updated, and when the <mark>message</mark> property changes, the input value changes.

## Compatability

v-model works with most form input elements, including text inputs, checkboxes, radio buttons, select elements, and textareas. However, some input elements may require additional configuration.

### Text Inputs

v-model works out of the box with text inputs, so you can simply add the directive to a text input element and bind it to a data property.

### Checkboxes

To use v-model with a checkbox, you need to bind the v-model directive to the value attribute of the checkbox, and add a :value binding to the v-bind directive. For example:

```vue
<template>
  <input type="checkbox" v-model="isChecked" :value="true">
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      isChecked: false
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

### Radio Buttons

To use v-model with radio buttons, you need to give each radio button the same name attribute and bind the v-model directive to the value of the selected radio button. For example:

```vue
<template>
  <input type="radio" v-model="selectedOption" value="option1">
  <input type="radio" v-model="selectedOption" value="option2">
  <input type="radio" v-model="selectedOption" value="option3">
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      selectedOption: 'option1'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

### Select Elements

To use v-model with a select element, you need to bind the v-model directive to the value attribute of the select element. For example:

```vue
<template>
  <select v-model="selectedOption">
    <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
    <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
    <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
  </select>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      selectedOption: 'option1'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

### Modifiers

v-model also supports a number of modifiers that can be used to modify the behavior of the two-way binding. Some of the most commonly used modifiers include:

- <mark>.lazy</mark> - This modifier causes the data property to be updated only when the input element loses focus, instead of updating it immediately when the input value changes.
- <mark>.number</mark> - This modifier automatically converts the input value to a number before updating the data property.
- <mark>.trim</mark> - This modifier automatically trims whitespace from the input value before updating the data property.