---
title: "Computed Properties"
description: "This is how you compute properties"
---

# Computed Properties

At first, computed properties can be confusing. It may seem as if this is the section for functions and variables.

I will recommend looking at computed properties as a set of tools that allow you to add computation to your template. Each tool has its uses and they are very flexible. So much so that you can accomplish close to the same things using different tools.

But for now, it is time to be explicit. Here are some ways to use your script to manipulate the template of your page:

## Methods

You write and store your functions in the methods section of your script. In short, this section is good for writing function logic and you need to call the functions for them to be used.

```vue
<template>
  <h1>Title</h1>
  <p>{ { message } }<p>
  //click directive is attached to a method
  <button @click="ChangeMessage" >Wake John</button>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: "PageOrComponentName",
  data() {
    return: {
      message: "John is sleeping.",
    }
  },
  //functions are placed in the methods section
  methods: {
    changeMessage() {
      this.message = "John is awake,"
    },
    logToConsole() {
      console.log("Testing Page")
    }
  },
}
</script>
```

When clicking the button, the function changeMessage gets called because the v-on:click directive (or @click for short) ties that button to it.

In that function, this.message is changed and this change will also appear in the template because it is a reactive dependancy (because it is declared in the data() section).

## Computed

This may seem similar to methods, but instead this is how you declare a piece of logic that is connected to a reactive property. To clarify, a reactive property is a piece of data that is automatically updated if any of its properties change, as illustrated in the example.

```vue
<template>
    <h1>Title</h1>
    <p>{ { age } }</p>
    <button @click="ChangeAge" >Change Age</button>
</template>

<script>
    export default {
        name: "PageOrComponentName",
        data() {
            return: {
                a: 10,
                b: 9,
            }
        },
        computed: {
            age: function() {
                return this.a + this.b
            }
        },
        methods: {
            changeAge() {
                this a = 20;
            }
        }
    }
</script>
```
The age is established in the computed section of the script. Because a is "10" and b is "9", age will print out as "19" in the template.

The button has a directive attached to the "changeAge" function in the methods section of the script. Clicking this button causes the function to change the value of a from "10" to "20". Age is automatically updated to "29" in the template because a is "20" and b is "9".

## Data

This is where you store your reactive properties/variables. The information you add here will return the initial state of our component and Vue will make the properties reactive.

What does it mean when Vue makes a property reactive?

## Difference Between Reactive and Imperative

NEED TO FIX: Typically, JavaScript has ways of doing things Imperatively (do these things in this order) or declaratively (this is what I want for when these things are happening).

Take the expression:

```js
let a = 2;
let b =3;
let age = a + b;
```
In JavaScript, age will point to the number 5. BUT, if right after, I was to change the variable a:

```js
let a = 2;
let b =3;
let age = a + b;
a = 10;
```
The variable age still points to 5.

BUT, as we've shown in the computed section, Vue will automatically update age is we make it a reactive dependancy by using the data and computed section.

Which all can be manipulated with your methods.

## Ways to Use Methods
Here are just a few suggestions to utilize methods in Vue:
- Changing the values of either inline styles or the class of an element so that it uses a new style based on a condition like hover, click, or moving the mouse.
- Call for and manipulate data from either within the application or an external source.
- Use reactivity and computation to keep track of client width/height so you can use those variables to adjust background sizes and more.
